---
layout: post
title: SQL Saturday Southampton (Post migrated from Ghost blog)
---

Ugh I've been so busy I feel like I'm slipping back into doing loads of stuff and not having time to write about it... but I've got a holiday coming up in a couple of weeks and hoping to catch up then.

For now, just a quick one about an event I went to - SQL Saturday in Southampton. It was awesome. The second event I've been to, I went to Redgate's 'SQL in the City' in London in October. The difference between what I understood and found useful was HUGE in just 2 months.

Which goes to show my learning at the moment is absolutely exponential, and very exhausting but still.. awesome.

So - SQL Saturday - it's a thing, very well organised and run regularly around the world I think? Quite a few in the UK, I'll definitely go again. Southampton wasn't too far, I set off about 6 in the morning and these were the sessions I attended:

#### 08:30 Data Security For Developers
A good run through on using stored procedures and database server side logic rather than connecting applications directly to the db, stuff I'm grasping now and have used in work and my side project (yeah got one of those now, more on that in another post).

#### 09:30 Understanding the Transaction Log, Your Key to Unlocking Greater Throughput
All about how to to appreciate how the transaction log works and how you can improve the performance of your applications by making the right architectural choices.

Found this one quite tough, but it was interesting to learn about how transaction logging impacts performance - and how many 'default' settings are set that way for old technologies (e.g. non SSD hard drives) and don't need to be.

#### 11:00 The What, Why and How of Unit Testing SQL Server
Absolutely brilliant. All about tSQLt and automation of unit testing - I really need to do this at work. Basically a huge pain to set up, but totally worth it. You essentially create a schema for unit testing, and an object for each test. So loads of upfront coding but then plenty of rewards to reap later e.g. automated testing of all SQL developments when you need to upgrade the application (VERY handy here.)

#### 13:15 SQL Server and Application Security for Developers
Another absolutely brilliant session. Very eye opening. The speaker showed how much information could be retrieved from the db schema including data types (and even some values!!) by manipulating the error message returned, including using it to inject via select statements. It showed the value in having business layers between db and application, and passing all logic through those - for instance rather than the log in being a simple query to return a match (or not) as this was very easy to hack!

#### 15:45 When good SQL design goes bad
Yet again, another really interesting and useful session. 
- When you should NOT use stored procedures. 
- When we don’t need indexes. 
- When Clustered Tables are bad. 
- When Identity Columns should not be Primary Keys. 
- When we don’t care about fragmentation. 
- When good naming conventions go bad. 
- Why Partitioning often makes your queries slower.

Essentially pointing out that standard good practice doesn't necessarily apply to every situation.

All in all, loved it - loads of learning points, and loads that I can put into practice immediately.
