---
layout: post
title: SQL 'WITH' (Post migrated from Ghost blog)
---

Came across a new trick this week in SQL.

I've been doing a lot of case statements, within views that would then be retrieved in other circumstances.

But this week I learnt how to reference a subquery within the main query, which is useful if you need to retrieve results including unions, and then create a case statement on them.

```SQL
WITH X as
(
 select statement
 union 1
 union 2

)

select top 100 percent
'case1' =
 case
      when thing = a then 'blah'
      else 'blah2'
 end
from X
```

What this has allowed me to do is solve a user interface problem, where the users go to complete a task they are presented with a dropdown selection of 'things' on which to continue their task.

That's obviously an easy query - just a view of all valid things.

However - turns out the users wanted a dropdown of a variety of different types of things, including some that aren't actually anywhere in the database (sort of like a grouping of 'things' for that particular task).

Using a 'WITH' statement and a few unions, I can pull these different 'things' from around the db, call them all the same titles, add some random ones that don't actually exist, and join it all up in one stored procedure for the web page to fetch on dropdown.

I use exactly the same principle for the second dropdown, which is derived from the variable stored by user selection of the first dropdown @thing, but needs to be a list of valid 'things' in the db.

Magic!
